So I did wanna start off this whole
thing with my first big interview.
And what I mean by that is
that I went through college.
I've been fired as a server
once when I was younger.
Right, none of those were
really big interviews, right.
You just have to be like,
I wanna expand my horizon and boom,
you got your job being a busboy, right.
It's not very hard.
But when I was in college
I did my own startup.
It was really, really good learned a lot,
lost a lot of money.
Then I joined like a smaller startup
that's like been the startup phase for
eight years.
It was really terrible.
Then my very first kind of
big interview happened, and
I still remember going in there and
being nervous.
I've never been nervous for an interview.
I was for time back to back Champion
of ACM programming local competitions,
won a regional felt really good,
great on the whiteboard, super excited.
But this one I was nervous because this
one, they told me my salary up front.
I was nervous.
I've never made a lot of money,
lived off to $6 a day,
very like, my goodness,
this is gonna be a huge opportunity here.
So I was very excited, very nervous and
going through the whole thing I felt I
was just nailing the problems, right?
Doing it in Java on the board because of
course good college student knows Java at
that point in life.
This is during the mid 2000s.
And then they get to a question
where they asked me this.
All right, I want you to kind
of fix a problem we have.
We have a static site with
1000s of files on it.
And some hacker got in there and
decided that they were gonna put a little
advertisement for
their site throughout our code base.
And so now you have to go through and
find this string in 1000s of files and
remove it.
And I was, wow, okay,
I think I could to that and
they're like let's just start
off first with something simple.
Can you first identify all
the files that hang the string.
I'm about to do this problem and
I'm a little nervous.
So I get on Java and I get that buffered
reader out string tokenizer and
I'm tokenizing and I'm walking through
they're standing folders, every directory,
I see I recourse back through and
do it all.
I think I did actually
a breadth first search.
So I just added all the files
to the end of a queue and
then popped off the front of the queue.
But nonetheless, I did all these things
got done with it took like 40 minutes.
It was a beautiful piece of
fine Java done on a Whiteboard.
And the interviewer went, all right yeah,
that is definitely a solution that works.
Have you heard of grep?
And at that point, I was like, what he's
like grep and I was like crap using grep.
And I was just like, I don't even
know what you're trying to say to me.
And I felt so dang silly.
And that was kind of like this point in my
life where I always thought I was great at
things.
And then just in that
small little statement,
it kinda crumbled a little bit, right?
I didn't realize how much I didn't know,
until that moment.
And then when I saw how
easy it was with grep,
the amount of shame I
felt obviously went up.
I was just like, my goodness, I could
have solved this in 15 characters and
I just spent 45 minutes,
solving something in Java.
This is ridiculous, I should have been
able to do this much, much better.
And from that moment on,
I've always tried to take more time in
learning what is the best
way to do things.
And so for the last seven years or
eight years since then,
I've been just really focusing on that.
And this whole talk is gonna be
the summation of all those things.
And really in the last two years,
it's really kinda of been my focus.
And I kinda of came up with a little
phrase that the length of knowledge is
a measurement of its value.
And what I mean by that is that,
obviously if you know CPR and
you get into a situation which you need
CPR you only get to use it once, but
it's super valuable, right?
That one moment is super critical and
super valuable.
You may know it your whole life and
never get an opportunity to use it.
But you get to know it, it does not
necessarily change that much, and
you can use it at any point in your
life over the course of 50 years.
And so the value of it's really high,
even if you can't use it, whereas like,
say React Hooks, you know React Hooks.
Four years ago, you couldn't use React
Hooks because I don't think React Hooks
were even a thing back then.
And maybe in four years from now, there'll
be something completely different.
And so, the length of that knowledge
is not necessarily wide, but
it's very applicable today.
And so today, I really wanted to focus on
knowledge that can be used over the course
of your entire career,
as opposed to just something that will be
applicable in today or
in your specific job role.
I also wanted to make sure that it's more
operating system independent, meaning that
if today you're using subsystem on
Windows tomorrow, you're on Mac.
The next day you're on
Arch Linux by the wing people,
you can use anything that I've showed
you today on any of those systems.
And I think that that's really
where the power of this comes from,
is that the value of it will
just be useful forever, right?
It's gonna be the whole career.
And so let's kinda move in.
And so I know that there's probably a lot
of you out there that are watching that
this is kinda their standard
operating condition.
You get onto your laptop, you open it up,
you open up the VS code and
that's all you open, right?
Everything you do is within your
editor it's a very Emacs lifestyle.
It becomes your OS, I'm sure there's a web
browser even built into VS code, and
you can just go there and this is it.
And so there's some things that
are kind of really inconvenient,
somethings that are super convenient and
you just kinda deal with the things
that you don't like, or
you don't know that there's better paths.
And this is just your experience and this
was my experience for a long, long time.
I didn't have VS code though,
I had NetBeans I don't know if you know
about this greatest
productivity tool ever created.
And then if you do have terminals,
your terminal experience probably looks
a little something like this,
where you just have so many of them.
And every time you have to find
that one task that's running,
you just have to do that Ctrl+Tab or
I don't know what it is on Mac, Cmd+Tab.
All the way through until you can find the
right tab that has the running process and
do something with it.
Very frustrating, I mean, my goodness.
This picture alone, I can feel my cortisol
rising slowly just looking at it.
And then of course Windows, I am positive
a lot of you out there do the Cmd+Tab,
Ctrl+Tab kind of lifestyle where you have
to click through manually all of your
Windows.
Or even worse you probably use
that exploded view and play a game
of Where's Waldo, looking for that one
thing you need open jumping into it.
I mean these things are just
huge time sinks and
ultimately what they really come down
to is you get some sort of fatigue.
Every single day you're performing
these really simple tasks over and
over and over again, and
they do take some level of mental effort.
I remember when I used to kind of Cmd+Tab
through all my tasks or all my windows,
I would actually look and kind of roughly
calculate which direction was shorter.
And either do a Shift+Tab or
a Tab just to get there faster, right?
Or you're using these desktops and they
have these nice transitions to them and
you're searching through each desktop.
It's just so much thought and
going into trying to do the thing
you wanna do and not just doing it.
And so by the way, that's my TEDx talk.
I hope you appreciate my TEDx talk,
Search Fatigue, it's gonna be up there,
it's gonna be right up
there with power stances.
Anyways, by the way, I don't use VS Code,
just in case anyone is wondering,
I just wanted to get that out there.
But there is actually another way.
There is a better way.
There's ways I think,
that could really make your life more
pleasant as a developer awaits for
you to be able to really move all
that clutter out of the way and
just get right to it.
And so you're probably asking, well,
what is developer Productivity besides for
being oddly capitalized with the P and
not the D?
That just happens when you're
creating a presentation.
Things happen, nobody knows why.
I kind of made this really important,
very well thought through diagram so
let's kind of go over it.
So there's soft skills.
And if you don't know
what soft skills are,
they're kind of the really hip phrase
right now in the Silicon Valley.
Everyone's all about the soft skills.
Soft skills are your ability to
collaborate, to communicate, to elaborate,
everything that kinda ends with ate and
you just got to be really great at it and
it's just like the focus right now.
And obviously the opposite of
soft skills are hard skills.
Because that's the only thing that makes
sense, I always considered hard skills.
Like how good are you technically
at this you really know React.
These are your hard skills.
By the way hard skills I just
made that up a few weeks ago so
don't use that anywhere, no one will
know what you're talking about.
And this is this side,
you can be really great at hard skills and
be completely lacking at soft skills,
right?
Unable to communicate or vice versa, you
can be really great at communicating and
displaying ideas but
not really able to implement them.
But I kinda feel like there's a third set
of skills that we don't talk about and
I didn't necessarily plan for
in this diagram called
developer productivity, right?
It's your ability to transfer
between these two and
really kind of move
everything out of the way.
And so I felt like this diagram was pretty
good because developer productivity
doesn't make you better developer, right.
It doesn't mean that you're
now gonna be an all star.
You're not a 10x developer.
It's just a new set of skills that
help you in your day to day life.
And so my definition of course, is all
the things that separate you from working,
and not everything I'm gonna talk
about today will be for you.
But the good news is not everything I talk
about today builds on the previous item.
That means, as I talked about one topic,
it can be completely disjointed, though
related to the previous topic, and so
everything will have its own usefulness.
And not all operating systems
will be as good, right.
Windows will not necessarily be as
good for some of the things, but
it'll be better for other things.
So just take each one with a grain of
salt, see how it fits into your lifestyle,
see if it really makes it better for you.
It's gonna take a little bit
of exploring on your behalf.
And lastly,
if you do a lot of these things,
you are gonna be able to have what I
refer to as the by the way factor.
Now if you don't know what
the by the way factor is,
I've already said it a few times.
A good example is that
I use Vim by the way.
Now immediately I get to just
drop that in a conversation.
People think I'm cooler.
I use Tmux by the way,
I type on Dvorak, by the way, right?
You get to just use all those phrases.
Now I can't say I use Arch Linux,
by the way.
I mean that's like the ultimate
by the way, I'm not there yet.
One day I'll have it when
my kids go to college and
I have enough time to finally
customize my operating system.
Then I'll have the full by the way set.
So here's kind of like the itinerary
of what we're talking about.
Now this is obviously a very shrewd yet
crude diagram that I
made not too long ago.
The first part I'm calling it the 0 to 60,
right?
This is kind of you and your computer
becoming what you wanted to be.
I find that this section I
thought was the most boring but
every single time I need to do anything on
my computer, it is the best thing ever.
I'll get more into that.
Next, it's kind of like
a navigation terminal section,
really just deep diving into that
kinda coming up with some tools,
building things out,
making it into what you want it to be.
And lastly, we're gonna just be
talking about software and tools.
Now there's kinda like
a little surprise at the end.
I'm pretty excited about that last one,
we'll do something pretty awesome with it,
but really just the future and
current tools that are available.
And so let's move on.
And so why do I care?
Why do I care about any of this?
Because this takes a lot of time,
a lot of effort.
Why am I telling you about
these kinda mundane tools?
Well, I like to tell the story
about a time in 2016 I believe I
had this problem with
a Netflix television app.
Now if you don't know anything
about the Netflix television app,
it's a c++ application that has
a cadences for these releases.
And so when I say hey,
I'm using say the app version for 20,
that is gonna be at some point in time.
And if there's a bug, we're gonna have to
open up that version of the c++ code base,
compile it, get it ready, run it out and
go, okay, what's going on here?
And obviously we have some tools
around it to make it really simple.
But nonetheless,
it's actually like hard version,
something that is not very
familiar in the web world.
And I went over to one of the lead
developers over there his name is Anders,
and I said hey Anders, like on this
version I am seeing this bug and
I don't know why.
What's going on, and
he turned to his computer.
He's in the middle of work press like
three buttons, get menu popped up.
He jumped over to that version, it started
immediately building, he was just bam bam,
bam and I was blown away.
I was like,
how in the world is he doing that?
This is incredible, whatever I've been
doing is evidently wrong because that
would have taken me 10 minutes just to
get set up and he did it in 15 seconds.
The amount of just effort he does
not have to put in to doing mundane,
repetitive tasks is credible,
I learn this skill.
But one thing I noticed right
away is he was using Emacs.
And if you're not familiar with Emacs,
Emacs learning curve is rather difficult
so I decided that I can do
non-differentiable, learning curves.
So I chose a less difficult but
still difficult editor, Vim.
I find that this learning curve just feels
better for me because once I finally
got to that level, it's just hard and
I can deal with it.
And so I went with Vim, I started diving
further and further and at that point,
I was using IntelliJ with the Vim plugin.
It was a long and
difficult road for quite some time.
And if you're wondering hashtag,
self promotion here.
I do have a VIM Fundamentals course
here on Frontend Masters, my goodness,
like I plan this little loop right there.
All right, so who am I?
I get to work at Netflix.
I think that that is awesome.
I love Netflix.
It's been a lot of fun.
For the last couple years,
my primary focus has been more
on kind of network stuff.
I've written part of http2,
written a Web Socket protocol.
All the stuff for our television app
to kind of change it in certain ways.
It's been a lot and lot of fun.
Apparently, what I'm best known for,
though, is streaming on Twitch.
I'm the guy that codes and screams and
reads chat at an unusual pace.
It's just I have too much energy and I'm
like I just gotta get it out of me and so
that feels like a great
place to get it out of me.
I also make slightly meaning and
informative videos on YouTube,
mostly meaning, but some of them.
I'm married to a beautiful wife, that
was y best accomplishment, thus far, and
of course four kids,
it's increased by 33% since the last
time I believe I recorded the show.
And so this is great, new kid awesome
by the way, thanks for asking.
I genuinely appreciate that.
And I do wanna kinda stress
this one more time, which is,
everything we do today
can be done in piecemeal.
You don't have to see 500 things to do and
go wow,
I can't do any of these things right now.
How am I ever gonna do all these things.
I will show you various pieces of
technology that are really cool and
gonna make your life significantly better.
But you can just go,
okay, I remember those,
I hear them at some point when I have a
time out, investigate one of many of them.